feat: Expand codacy quickstart DOCS-470 (#1547)
codacy/docs: docs/getting-started/integrating-codacy-with-your-git-workflow.md

---
description: Configure Codacy to block merging pull requests that don't meet your quality standards.
---

# Integrating Codacy with your Git workflow

Once you've [configured your repository](configuring-your-repository.md) to best match your use case, **integrate Codacy with your Git workflow** to display analysis results and code coverage on your Git provider and block problematic pull requests.

To integrate Codacy with your Git workflow, follow these steps:

1.  [Configuring quality settings](#configuring-quality-settings)
1.  [Activating the Git provider integration](#git-provider-integration)
1.  [Blocking merging pull requests](#blocking-pull-requests)

## 1. Configuring quality settings {: id="configuring-quality-settings"}

[Configure the quality settings](../repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings.md) of your project to define the gates (minimum acceptable values) and goals for quality metrics such as issues, duplication, complexity, and code coverage.

!!! info "Using code coverage as a quality gate"
    To use code coverage as a quality gate:

    -   Ensure that code coverage reports are being generated and uploaded to Codacy

>     -   Enable **Diff coverage is under** or **Coverage variation is under** when configuring the quality settings

Author: A bit long...but all necessary I guess.

I also experimented with the title. Seeing the main point in the title feels like better UX than a generic "info", at least here. Thoughts?

Reviewer: In practice it's a good idea :+1:, but I feel like in this particular case we're adding repetition since the title is practically the same as the first sentence in the admonition. I also think the introductory sentence is more "mandatory" to keep things explicit, while the title is more accessory.

We're also losing the "conditional" aspect of this checklist - users only need it if they want to set up a quality gate for coverage.

The pattern that I usually follow is having an admonition where I have a first sentence in bold starting with "If ..." so that users can quickly understand if the information being introduced applies to them or not. You can see some examples of this [here](https://docs.codacy.com/repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings/#gates) or [here](https://docs.codacy.com/faq/general/how-can-i-change-or-cancel-my-plan/#if-youre-using-codacy-cloud).

So, taking these suggestions into account, this part could be simplified to:

```suggestion
!!! info
    **If you want to use code coverage as a quality gate:**

    -   Ensure that code coverage reports are being generated and uploaded to Codacy
    -   Enable **Diff coverage is under** or **Coverage variation is under** when configuring the quality settings
```

![Enabling your Git provider integration](../repositories-configure/integrations/images/github-integration.png)

## 3. Blocking merging pull requests {: id="blocking-pull-requests"}

Set up your Git provider to enforce Codacy's feedback and block merging pull requests with failing status checks ([GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/defining-the-mergeability-of-pull-requests/managing-a-branch-protection-rule), [GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/merge_requests/merge_when_pipeline_succeeds.html#only-allow-merge-requests-to-be-merged-if-the-pipeline-succeeds), [Bitbucket](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/suggest-or-require-checks-before-a-merge/)).

## Next steps

**Congratulations!**  🎉 You've successfully integrated and set up your first repository.

Before moving on, it's important that you:

-   Validate that Codacy is reporting the intended status on your pull requests
-   Review your [tool and code pattern settings](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md) and [quality gate settings](../repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings.md)

> This is important to eliminate any false positives that could inadvertently block the work of your team.

Author: What if we move that last box to its own section? Trying this one here

Reviewer: Checking that Codacy is reporting the correct status on pull requests and double-checking the tool and code patterns is an important step to do **before** blocking the merge of pull requests. This is intended as a last validation before customers run the risk of blocking the work of developers and [the feedback was provided by Customer Success](https://codacy.slack.com/archives/CA5GWEXSN/p1643299700029900?thread_ts=1643205653.029600&cid=CA5GWEXSN). Please revert this change. :arrow_backward:

!!! tip
    Depending on the initial quality of your repositories and on your current team practices, the default gates may be too strict. Consider initially limiting gates to new critical issues, new security issues, and considerable drops in code coverage.

![Configuring quality settings](../repositories-configure/images/quality-settings.png)

## 2. Activating the Git provider integration {: id="git-provider-integration"}

1.  Activate the integration with your Git provider ([GitHub](../repositories-configure/integrations/github-integration.md), [GitLab](../repositories-configure/integrations/gitlab-integration.md), [Bitbucket](../repositories-configure/integrations/bitbucket-integration.md))
1.  When activating the integration, enable the option **Status checks** (GitHub) or **Pull request status** (GitLab and Bitbucket)

>     -   This instructs Codacy to report to your Git provider whether the status checks on a pull requests are passing or failing, based on your quality settings

Author: I included some bits of layered information as sub-points for now, although this may not be the best format to present them. We may also simply use two sentences per point. Thoughts?

---
description: Configure Codacy to block merging pull requests that don't meet your quality standards.
---

# Integrating Codacy with your Git workflow

> Once you've [customized your setup](customizing-your-setup.md) to best match your needs, you can integrate Codacy with your Git workflow to display analysis results and code coverage on your Git provider and block problematic pull requests.

Reviewer: Make the intro more assertive, then reuse bits of the intro on "Next steps" of the previous page. :wink:

To integrate Codacy with your Git workflow, follow these steps:

1.  [Configuring quality settings](#configuring-quality-settings)
1.  [Activating the Git provider integration](#git-provider-integration)
1.  [Using code coverage as a quality gate](#coverage-gate)
1.  [Blocking merging pull requests](#blocking-pull-requests)

## 1. Configuring quality settings {: id="configuring-quality-settings"}

> [Configure the quality settings](../repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings.md) of your project to define the gates (minimum acceptable values) and goals for quality metrics such as issues, duplication, complexity, and code coverage. These gates, goals, and metrics are always visible on Codacy's dashboard and [can be optionally enforced](#blocking-pull-requests) when merging pull requests.

Reviewer: I'm unsure about adding a link here allowing users to jump directly to the last section of instructions on the page. :thinking: I think it's better to try to encourage a linear sequence.

```suggestion
[Configure the quality settings](../repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings.md) of your project to define the gates (minimum acceptable values) and goals for quality metrics such as issues, duplication, complexity, and code coverage. These gates, goals, and metrics are always visible on Codacy's dashboard.
```

Author: I was on the fence about the link too, but the fact that they can be optionally enforced is something we decided was useful to point out to the users. I can look into fitting it someplace else.

Reviewer: By having a more "in-depth" conceptual discussion in the page intro, the sections can become more lightweight and devoid of details like these.

!!! tip
    Depending on the initial quality of your repositories and on your current team practices, the default gates may be too strict. Consider initially limiting gates to new critical issues, new security issues, and considerable drops in code coverage.

![Configuring quality settings](../repositories-configure/images/quality-settings.png)

## 2. Activating the Git provider integration {: id="git-provider-integration"}

1.  Activate the integration with your Git provider ([GitHub](../repositories-configure/integrations/github-integration.md), [GitLab](../repositories-configure/integrations/gitlab-integration.md), [Bitbucket](../repositories-configure/integrations/bitbucket-integration.md)).

1.  When activating the integration, enable the option **Status checks** (GitHub) or **Pull request status** (GitLab and Bitbucket).

    This instructs Codacy to report to your Git provider whether the status checks on a pull request are passing or failing, based on your quality settings.

> ## 3. Using code coverage as a quality gate {: id="coverage-gate"}

Reviewer: By having this section here, we're repeating the instructions on how to set up coverage (as they're already included on the preceding page).

It's simpler to:

- Briefly mention that the coverage setup must already be complete for the coverage variation/diff coverage quality gates and status checks to work, in the section "Configuring quality settings" on this page
- Also briefly mention that setting up coverage will later allow blocking pull requests in the section "(https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/1547/files#diff-1f209302c17b228f8659bbdae4bb5313fb0b3f58eb161298b7b0cff7e4316afaR34)" of the preceding page.

Optionally, to use code coverage or its variation as a quality gate:

1.  [Set up the coverage reporter pipeline](../coverage-reporter/index.md) **before** opening a new pull request.
    
    This lets Codacy calculate code coverage and its variation between the new branch and the target branch.

1.  [Update the quality gate rules](../repositories-configure/adjusting-quality-settings.md#gates) to enable **Diff coverage is under** or **Coverage variation is under**.
    
    This instructs Codacy to report the coverage analysis results to your Git provider.

> ![Enabling your Git provider integration](../repositories-configure/integrations/images/github-integration.png)

Reviewer: This screenshot makes sense in the section "Activating the Git provider integration".
